## Web Application Security WG
**[Tuesday, May 17th: 18:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220517T1800)** <br>
(11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00 London, 20:00 Berlin) <br>
<small>_Note that the US daylight savings shift affects the meeting time in Europe compared to our March meeting._</small>

### Attendees
* Sam Weiler
* Wendy Seltzer
* Artur Janc
* Titouan Rigody
* Dan Veditz
* Arthur Hemery
* Johan Hofmann
* David Dworken
* Frederik Braun
* Ian Clelland
* Nina Satragno
* Edward Qiu
* Mike West
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi


### Agenda
*   Administrivia
    * Proposed new meeting time and day: 3rd Wednesdays, 1600 UTC [or 1500?] 
    * [TPAC 2022 heads up](https://www.w3.org/blog/news/archives/9503): September 12-16, Vancouver BC, Canada
*   The latest iteration of COOP+Popups: [`COOP: restrict-properties`](https://github.com/hemeryar/explainers/blob/main/coop_restrict_properties.md) ([Arthur Hemery](https://github.com/hemeryar))
*   Private Network Access [updates](https://github.com/WICG/private-network-access/issues/23#issuecomment-1126195439) ([Titouan Rigoudy](https://github.com/letitz))
*   Note: [PATCG](https://patcg.github.io/) is meeting [later on the 17th](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/tree/main/2022/05/17-telecon).
*   [Credential Management updates](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-credential-management/wiki/Changes-since-December-2021)

### Minutes

#### Administrivia

mkwst: two things -- TPAC is coming up, physically in Vancouver, Sept 12-16 (hybrid options available). Registration is not open yet, just to let people know to start planning and getting comfortable with it.

...: we've had this meeting in a late-morning California time for a while now. As the attendees shift more and more toward Europe, it would be reasonable to shift earlier. A concrete proposal is "3rd Wednesdays, 2 hours earlier than the current time". Are the people who are here now OK with that time?  [general silence and assent]  OK, we will formally propose this in the list for the wider group.


#### The latest iteration of COOP+Popups: [`COOP: restrict-properties`](https://github.com/hemeryar/explainers/blob/main/coop_restrict_properties.md) ([Arthur Hemery](https://github.com/hemeryar))

AH: because of spectre a few years ago we split web content into separate processes by origin, and use Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy as a way to keep some site's content out of other site's processes. There are two values for COOP, same-origin(site?) and same-origin-allow-popups. If you want to communicate with a 3rd party popup you have to use the second one. That's not enough to guarantee enough separation so allow SharedArrayBuffer. Currently we can't have site isolation and 3rd party communication at the same time, which interferes with things like payments, 

...: we've been thinking on this for a year and a half, and discovered we don't have to sever all links, but 
Current proposal is that we'll restrict access to the window's synchronous accessors. Just `postMessage()`, `close()`, etc.

...: Current status: talking to folks who asked for it (Facebook, Zoom, etc) who seem to think it's a decent solution. Would like to have feedback from not-so-large companies. Working with Auth0, looking for more feedback from developers. General agreement on the shape of the API, getting closer.

Artur Janc: Two questions! Do you have thoughts on which mode of COOP is stricter? `same-origin` or `restrict-properties`? They have slightly different properties. The one gives you everything for `same-origin` windows, the other gives you only a subset of properties.

Arthur Hemery: Not clear which is "stronger". They operate in different ways. `COOP: same-origin` gives synchronous access if opted-into on both sides, but cuts off access for cross-origin documents entirely.

Artur Janc: Assume there's a page that has `COOP: same-origin` today, and wants to switch to `restrict-properties`. Currently, it's cross-origin isolated. But there's an interop problem with that switch, as not all browsers implement `restrict-properties`. Is that a concern? Will everyone adopt?

Arthur Hemery: I'm expecting Firefox to follow, as they're involved in the design. WebKit is less clear. OTOH, I wouldn't expect people to drop optional benefits (`SharedArrayBuffer`, etc). You can afford perf hits, but you can't accept loss of payments or login.


####  Private Network Access [updates](https://github.com/WICG/private-network-access/issues/23#issuecomment-1126195439) ([Titouan Rigoudy](https://github.com/letitz))

Titouan: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JZzVMewImhqicmwf-xMydYR8l180gA9iDsergGQVcdY/edit?usp=sharing).
  
...: Background: We'd like to make PNA a powerful feature, and restrict to secure contexts. PNA asks the target device sitting on a local network whether it's willing to accept requests from out there in the world: CORS request, `Origin` header. The only way that header allows a real decision is if it's authenticated, HTTPS. The device can know that it's _really_ `evil.com`.

...: Mixed Content makes this hard. Prevents plaintext connections from HTTPS. We hoped to get past this by pointing to Web Transport, which supports encrypted connections without being tied to HTTPS or the WebPKI, which would make it possible to establish a secure connection to internal devices.

...: We tried pretty hard to sell this to web developers. Got feedback about not being able to bootstrap the connection. Website needs to know about the target devices' certificate fingerprint. Conflicts with iOS rules about setup without connecting to the network.

...: We finally admitted we need a permission prompt. ![Permission prompt: attacker.com wants to access My Smart Toothbrush (192.168.1.27) Block/Allow](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6042081/168261216-61e79076-3410-4f6b-a794-8eb0e092722f.png)

...: We can't really show what we want to show, as we don't have information about the device on the internal network. We know we're able to show something more generic: "access devices on the private network, behind your firewall". But that's not a great prompt.

...: So, what can we do? Perhaps we could tack something onto `fetch()`: `fetch("http://router.local/ping", { privateNetwork: true })`. This sends a preflight request, and expects the device to reply with `Private-Network-Access-Name`/`Private-Network-Access-ID` headers to populate information for the user once the browser accepts the preflight response.

...: There's more detail in the proposal that we can bikeshed.

dveditz: Is the prompt's grant to everything on the IP address, or just some specific port? `localhost` is a case that probably has many services running.

Titouan: For the duration of the document, you can use the origin. But within some period of time, the devices existing at a given IP address will change. Some tension between usability for the user who's being prompted, and the security properties we get from checking the device again.

dveditz: 

mkwst: Some question about names.

Titouan: MDNS. `*.local`.

mkwst: I guess I can see that working. Does `.local` resolve from the network if it can't resolve locally? Do we need `let-local-be-local`?

dvedtiz/titouan: Maybe.

Titouan: The real problem here is control over strings in the browser's UI. We don't really care about control over DNS, since preflights mitigate.


#### [Credential Management updates](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-credential-management/wiki/Changes-since-December-2021)

Nina: Credential Management is an API that lets you store all kinds of credentials. There's a spec that describes the framework, and two kinds of credentials.

...: Three things: we want to support some use cases that only show UI if the user has a credential: conditional UI. Payments, WebAuthN.

...: Fetch API has a mechanism for aborting requests. We added support for that in Credential Management as well.

...: We also integrated with Permissions Policy more directly.

...: Jeff Hodges (editor) retired, and I'm taking over as the editor.

...: Many other uninteresting editorial changes. I'm new to the group, so I'm passing on updates, learning how this group works.

...: Googlers are planning on splitting the specification into the mechanism through which credentials can be requested (every browser supports), and specific credential types like Password and Federated (only supported by Chrome). We want to split the bits implemented everywhere into one spec that can move ahead through W3C, and another set of documents we still need to work on.

dveditz: WebAuthn meets twice a month, only working on one spec, work through issues in the group. In this group, we're working more asynchronously. Maybe good to learn from each other.

Nina: Camera usually disabled in our meetings, seeing folks for the first time. Hi! Next meeting, we'll share a concrete plan about splitting the spec out, and whether the specific credential types make sense in this group.

wseltzer: If you need feedback or input from this group, put things on the agenda, we're happy to talk through things!


#### Surprise topic: Sanitizer API

freddy: Sanitizer API aims to let developers strip malicious content from HTML, always returns something safe. Two things we haven't yet agreed upon, cutting down the spec to an MVP.

...: MVP consists of a constructor with many options, gives you a `Sanitizer`. Then there's a `.setHTML()` method on `Element`, which sanitizes with a default sanitizer configuration, or the specific configuration you pass in.

...: Shorter than `.innerHTML`, better.

...: Complicated questions about other things that we'll defer until later.

...: Planning to upstream to HTML before we ship. We have a prototype that's working, mostly aligned with Chrome.
