# Web Application Security WG
[Wednesday, June 15th: 16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220615T1600) <br>
(09:00 California, 12:00 Boston, 17:00 London, 18:00 Berlin)<br>

## Attendees
* Camille Lamy
* Dan Veditz
* Daniel Huigens
* Edward Qiu
* Giorgio Maone
* Jonathan Hao
* Sam Weiler
* Wendy Seltzer

## Agenda
https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2022/2022-06-15-agenda.md

*   [New group charter](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2022Jun/0004.html)
*   [TPAC 2022](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2022):
    *   September 12-16, Vancouver BC, Canada ("Hybrid" meeting)
    *   Our slots are tentatively Monday 4pm-6pm, Tuesday 9am-11am and 4pm-6pm
*   CSP ['wasm-unsafe-eval'](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-csp/#wasm-integration)
*   CfC to Publish [Permission Registry](https://w3c.github.io/permissions-registry/) as a Draft Registry
*   [Secure Curves in Web Crypto](https://wicg.github.io/webcrypto-secure-curves/)

## Minutes

Dan: WG was rechartered through June 2023.  Everyone will have to rejoin the WG; there's a link in the email.  Ask your AC rep to rejoin.

TPAC 2022 in in Vancouver Sept 12-16; hybrid format.  Hopefully we'll have good connectivity and tech.  Tentaitve days/times as above.  Wednesday is tradtionally a day for pleanary/unconference.  Other groups meeting M/T/Th/F.  

CSP has been updated to change name to wasm-unsafe-eval; CHhrome has been supporting both old and new names for some time; FF releasing at end of month.  Safari has it in tech preview.  FF isn't seeing problems.  Any site using CSP and wasm will need to add one of the directives.  

A few weeks ago we had a CfC re: publishing permissions registry; some comments in GH; nothing on email list.  Comment period closes end of week.  Any comments? Mozilla would prefer to see that folded into Permissions API spec rather than 2x docs.  In practice, devs will likely use MDN.

Daniel Huigens: I volunteered to be new editor for Web Crypto, which is now in scope per charter.  Working on additions for EC's.  Spec in WICG; one experimental implementation from @@.  Not many comments from others.  Spec defines 4 new algs, X22519, X448, ED25519, ED448; ED448 has add'l optional parameter for context.  Mostly straightforward.  Some question of whether to add pre-hash variants - not there now.  Open Q of when to validate keys - e.g. when importing public keys or when doing key derivation or verification.  To me, makes more sense to verify when importing, but doing it later is simpler to implement.  Open issues and PRs in GH.  

Sam: should we migrate these drafts from WICG into WG.

Daniel: charter said we should adopt when well supported, which these aren't yet.  

Dan Veditz: we previously thought this would be a good home, and people thought there would be support.  Not ready to adopt and do FPWD yet.  But time to bring it up and see if we can get there.  Better to leave repo in WICG until we have consensus.  Is link to repo just additions or is it the whole spec?

Daniel: this doc is only the new algs.  WebCrypto lives in github/w3c/webcrypto

Dan: should we have this as separate doc or roll it into the base WebCrypto?  

Daniel: once well supported, could merge it.  That's what happened with randomUUID function.

Dan: so separate for now....  I don't think we want to FPWD something we want to be part of the different spec.  But moving repo would indicate level of intent.

Sam: I'm not aware of an issue with FPWD even if we later intend to merge them.

Daniel: WebCrypto spec is very extensible.

Wendy: thank you for doing this work and bringing it here.  What can WG do to draw attention to the questions re: level of support or identify user or implementer interest?

Daniel: user interest is clear.  GH issue on this had support.  would be good for implementers to review.


Sam: if you decide to go to TPAC in person, consider going for the whole week.

Dan: 2nd.

Sam: please join the WG if you are here. It has come up when wanting to assign permissions in github to authors of documents who turned out not to be members of the group

Sam: WASM: would it be helpful - and a reasonable - to ask the WASM folks to provide for auditability, e.g. require source and deterministic ways to compile it.

Dan: we have a similar problem with minimized JS; not really readble if they use obfuscation and packers.  With minimized JS you can provide a map to source.  As an optional thing, would be a great thing for them to support.  Not sure how to require it.  Some people using this for obfuscation.

Sam: could imagine a technical means of enforcing, e.g. if versions don't match, no run it. 

Dan: no browser does that.  I wonder if NoScript could do it.  Giorgio?  

Giorgio: FSF attempted that with LibreJS, which doesn't check for source maps, but checks for machine-readable @@.  IF script not associated with machine-readable @@.  Theoretically possible.... I'm skeptical of practicality rather than feasibility.  Probably technically feasible.  Easier to just ask for an run source.  

Daniel: even if you have sources and compliation is deterministic... depending on the goal... if goal is to not run malicious code, still need to read sources.  Infeasible for individual users.  might be valuable to make sure that every user running same code, then any researcher or auditor could read it.  could also read minified code.  WhatsApp did something like that with a web extension, check hash of source code of app matches.  A web std without extension would be good.  then don't need to ship unminified source - any one user can check.  

Sam: these sound complimentary.  

Daniel: only need to convince auditor; mapping might be handy for auditor.  

Dan: not practical to ask users to do this.  Even NoScript or old UI to "ask me about every cookie"... in practice, it was brutal.  It was easier in the 90s.  Maybe if people reported hashes of scripts they saw

Daniel: ideally webapp would commit to code hash in advance

Dan: could put SRI hashes in the page, but also publish them elsewhere.  Some leak of who fetches list, but could be good.

Daniel: include it in TLS cert; ends up in CT logs automatically.

Dan: some sites change scripts often.  could get tricky.  This is the sort of thing we could talk about at TPAC!

Dan: currently WASM can't interact with DOM, so easier to monitor input/output, but people are chafing at that limitation.  

Sam: this came up because they're rechartering.

Dan: if they don't have a way to specify a source map, that would be helpful.  When reviewing extensions, we have to ask for the source.  Would make people's lives better.
